+++
title = "VPP 20.01"
type = "latestnews"
+++

# Fast Data Project’s Vector Packet Processor (VPP) Release 20.01

## By Andrew Yourtchenko, John DeNisco, Jerome Tollet, Ole Troan

### Summary

**SAN JOSE** –  FD.io (“Fido”) – an open source project within The Linux Foundation’s
LF Networking (LFN), specifically focused on becoming the world’s packet processing data
plane form secure network infrastructure applications – Announced the availability of FD.io
VPP software release 20.01. This release provides significant enhancements to Vector
Packet Processing (VPP) security, Linux, container and virtual machine interfaces. –
Furthering its breakthrough packet processing performance and security.

### Problem

The VPP core has always had the ability to support multiple queues. However, before VPP release
20.01 the TAPv2 interface did not. As a result, when running Linux Applications with VPP under
heavy load the TAPv2 interface could become a bottleneck. All the packets in effect would be
funneled through a single CPU core and queue.

Also, Generic Segment Offload (GSO) has been supported with Linux, and VPP drivers, however
before VPP release 20.01 not by the VPP TCP host stack.

### Solution

With release 20.01 VPP now supports multiple queues with the TAPv2 interface and GSO in the
VPP TCP host stack.

This significantly improves VPP interaction and performance with Linux, and container solutions
like Kubernetes. The same can be also said of the VPP interface with Virtual Machines whether
it be with vhost (QEMU) or vmxnet3 (VMware). VPP 20.01 release now provides a multi queue,
multi core solution from end to end. This includes VPP applications, Linux, containers, virtual
machines and physical devices.

VPP now provides GSO support from end to end. From the VPP TCP host stack, Virtual Machines,
containers, Linux kernel and physical devices connected to the outside world.

The features traditionally wanted by “heavy hitters” like GSO on TCP, vhost, vmxnet3 and VPP
drivers, are complemented by <N> commits pertaining to QUIC and TCP - a space that is normally
terra incognita for a data plane.

It’s worth noting that the QUIC support that VPP provides is done in collaboration with the Quicly
project. By using this excellent library VPP uses avoids reinventing the wheel, while staying on
the bleeding edge.

QUIC bringing security to the table is not the only domain VPP is pursuing.

The IPsec might be discarded by some as not the most fashionable protocol, but it is very
strong in the community interest - as well as in the number of new developments: including the
multi buffer library contributed by Intel. This library enables its users to fully utilize the
existing performance investment, by pipelining several encryption operations at the same time and
using the micro architecture parallelism to achieve the non-trivial performance
improvement.

VPP performance is continuously being tested. This is done with the Continuous System
Integration and Test project (CSIT). All the CSIT test reports for the FD.io VPP 20.01 release
are available at [CSIT 20.01 Reports](https://docs.fd.io/csit/master/report/)

Some IPsec performance numbers can be found at
[CSIT crypto tests](https://docs.fd.io/csit/master/report/detailed_test_results/vpp_performance_results_3n_hsw/vpp_performance_results_3n_hsw.html)

Notice the following impressive results No Drop Rates (NDR) using IPv4 IPsec tunnels:

* **1518 Byte Packets, 1 tunnel, 4 threads 4 cores AES 256, NDR of 37.7 Gbps**
* **1518 Byte Packets, 1000 tunnels, 4 threads 4 cores AES 256, NDR of 33.7 Gbps**

### Customer Use Case and or Customer Quote

### Getting Started

The “data plane” experience of contributors from the VPP side enables a very successful cooperation
– more than **K** patches were up streamed to the Quicly library just for this release. 

Interested in a healthy balance between the feature richness and the cutting-edge performance?

[Visit FD.io](https://fd.io).

Feel like you have this next big idea to test, but it seemed too daunting?

[Get started with VPP](https://fd.io/vppproject/vpptech/).

Join us.

[Visit the FD.io Community](https://fd.io/community/join).

### About the Linux Foundation
Details on LF Networking are available here: [LF Networking](www.lfnetworking.org). 
The Linux Foundation is the organization of choice for the world’s top developers
and companies to build ecosystems that accelerate open technology development and
industry adoption. Together with the worldwide open source community, it is solving
the hardest technology problems by creating the largest shared technology investment
in history. Founded in 2000, The Linux Foundation today provides tools, training and
events to scale any open source project, which together deliver an economic impact not
achievable by any one company. More information can be found at [Linux Foundation](www.linuxfoundation.org).
